3 core principles for sharing data
When preparing a dataset for sharing, there are 3 essential practices that apply across disciplines.
Provide a descriptive title, summary, and keywords.
A dataset's title should clearly reflect its content, not the research articles title.
For example, indicate the type of data, e.g., images, tables, DNA sequences, the subject, and other relevant details.
Keywords and a concise summary help improve discoverability in repositories and search engines.
Include a ReadMe file with metadata.
Metadata is data about data.
A ReadMe file should explain the context, collection methods, file contents, and how to work with the dataset.
It is critical for helping others understand and reuse your data.
Ensure logical structure and organization.
Use clear folder hierarchies and descriptive, consistent file names.
This helps users quickly grasp how the dataset is organized and how files relate to one another.
These foundational elements significantly improve the chances that your data will be reused and understood.